Understanding Security Incident Response
With Security Incident Response (SIR), manage the life cycle of your security incidents from initial analysis to containment, eradication, and recovery. Security Incident Response enables you to get a comprehensive understanding of incident response procedures performed by your analysts, and understand trends and bottlenecks in those procedures with analytic-driven dashboards and reporting.

Built in integrations with third-party cyber security solutions and partner-developed integrations from the ServiceNow Store enable security automation and orchestration for efficient and accurate incident response.

Watch this nine-minute video to learn about the SIR process, using Security Incident Response to thwart attacks and viewing security activity in the Security Incident Response Explorer. 

To protect your investigations and keep security incidents private, Security Incident Response provides the means to restrict access to the system to specific security-related roles and ACLs. Non-security administrators can be restricted from access, unless you expressly allow them entry.
Note: IT System Administrators [admin] can impersonate ServiceNow users. However, when impersonating a user with an application admin role for Security Incident Response, an admin cannot access features granted by that role, including security incidents and profile information. Access to modules and applications in the navigation bar is also restricted. Also, admin cannot change the password of any user with an application admin role for Security Incident Response.

Discovery
Security incidents can be logged or created in the following ways.

    From the Security Incident form
    From events that are spawned internally, or created by external monitoring or vulnerability tracking systems via alert rules, or manually
    From external monitoring or tracking systems
    From the service catalog

Analysis

Depending on the selected view, you are using (default, Non-IT Security, Security ITIL, and so on), the Security Incident form can show any combination of vulnerabilities, incidents, changes, problems, tasks on the affected CI and affected CI groups. The system can identify malware, viruses, and other areas of vulnerability by cross-referencing the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) database, or other third-party detection software. As security incidents are resolved, you can use any incident to create a security knowledge base article for future reference.

Perform further analysis using a business service map to locate other affected systems or business services that can be infected.
Containment, Eradication, and Recovery

As you monitor and analyze vulnerabilities, you can create and assign tasks to other departments. You can use a business service map to create tasks, problems, or changes for all affected systems, documents, activities, SMS messages, bridge calls, and so forth.
Review
After the incident is resolved, other steps can take place before closure. You can perform a post incident review. Creating knowledge base articles can help with future similar incidents. Significant incidents may require a post-incident resolution review. This review can take several forms. For example:

    Conduct a meeting to discuss the incident and gather responses.
    Write and distribute to those teams who worked on an incident a list of resolution review questions designed for each category or priority of incident.
    Incident managers can write the report and gather information on their own.

An incident resolution review report can be automatically generated that includes:

    a summary of what was done
    the time line
    the type of security incident encountered
    all related incidents, changes, problems, tasks, CI groups
    the details of the resolution

In addition, an automated security incident resolution review survey system is available. It gathers the names of all users assigned to a security incident, and sends out a customized survey to gather data about the handling of the incident. This data can then be made available in a generated security incident review report, which you can edit into a final draft. Similar data can be added to a knowledge base article to contain lessons learned and the steps to take to resolve similar issues in the future.

